.TH pdf2pdf 1
.SH NAME
pdf2pdf \- Portable Document Format (PDF) converter
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pdf2pdf
[<options>] [
.I <Input-PDF-file>
[
.I <Output-PDF-file>
]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fIpdf2pdf\fR converts a Portable Document Format (PDF) file to a new PDF file.
pdf2pdf reads a PDF file, \fIInput-PDF-File\fR, changes layouts of pages,
and writes as a new PDF file, \fIOutput-PDF-File\fR. If \fIOutput-PDF-Files\fR
is not specified, the new PDF file is sent to stdout. If \flInput-PDF-Files\fR
is not specified, pdf2pdf reads the PDF data from stdin.

pdf2pdf can embed fonts in the new PDF file if you set its option.
"pdf2pdf" finds fonts to embed by fontconfig library.
"pdf2pdf" now embed only TrueType format fonts.
PDF Standard fonts are not embedded .

\fBNote:\fR You should not embed fonts that's licenses inhibit embedding.

"pdf2pdf" does not support functions that are not related to printing
features, including interactive features and document interchange features.
Many of these operators and sections are just ignored.
Some of these may be output, but those functions are not assured.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 5
-c <copies>
.RS 0
-copies <copies>
.RE
.RS 5
.br
Sets the number of copies to <copies>.
.RE
.TP 5
-collate
.br
Gets collated copies.
.TP 5
-scaling <scale>
.br
Specifies scaling factor <scale> in percentage of the paper size.
.TP 5
-natural-scaling <scale>
.br
Specifies scaling factor <scale> in percentage of the original size.
.TP 5
-landscape
.br
Rotates 90 degrees.
.TP 5
-orientation <num>
.br
Rotates the page. <num> is one of the followings.
.RS 10
0 : 0 degrees
.br
1 : 90 degrees
.br
2 : 180 degrees
.br
3 : 270 degrees
.RE
.TP 5
-fitplot
.br
Fits the page on the paper's imageable area. pdf2pdf may scale
and rotate the page.
.TP 5
-mirror
.br
Outputs the mirror image of the page.
.TP 5
-paper <paper size>
.br
Specifies the paper size. <paper size> is one of the followings.
.RS 10
letter, legal, A0, A1, A2, A3, A4, A5, B0, B1, B2, B3, B4, B5
.RE
.TP 5
-paperw <paper width>
.br
Specifies width of the paper in points.
.TP 5
-paperh <paper height>
.br
Specifies height of the paper in points.
.TP 5
-page-left <margin>
.RS 0
-page-right <margin>
.RE
.RS 0
-page-bottom <margin>
.RE
.RS 0
-page-top <margin>
.RE
.RS 5
.br
Specifies margins of each paper edge (left, right, bottom, top) in points.
<margin> should be greater than or equal 0, and less than or
equal paper dimension.
.RE
.TP 5
-position <pos>
.br
Specifies page position in imageable area. <pos> is one of the followings.
.RS 10
center, top, left, right, top-left, top-right, bottom, bottom-left,
bottom-right
.RE
.TP 5
-number-up <number>
.br
Selects N-up. N-up layouts multiple pages on a single paper. <number> is
one of the followings.
.RS 10
1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 16
.RE
.RS 5
The page may be rotated 90 degrees.
.RE
.TP 5
-number-up-layout <layout>
.br
Specifies layout order when -number-up is specified. <layout> is one
of the followings.
.RS 10
lrtb : left to right, top to bottom (default)
.br
lrbt : left to right, bottom to top
.br
rltb : right to left, top to bottom
.br
rlbt : right to left, bottom to top
.br
tblr : top to bottom, left to right
.br
tbrl : top to bottom, right to left
.br
btlr : bottom to top, left to right
.br
btrl : bottom to top, right to left
.RE
.TP 5
-page-border <border>
.br
Specifies border line of the page when -number-up is specified. <border>
is one of the followings.
.RS 10
none         : no line
.br
single       : single thin line
.br
single-thick : single thick line
.br
double       : double thin lines
.br
double-thick : double thick lines
.RE
.TP 5
-reverse
.br
Reverses page output order.
.TP 5
-page-set <set>
.br
Selects output page set. <set> is one of followings.
.RS 10
even : even page set
.br
odd  : odd page set
.RE
.TP 5
-page-ranges <ranges>
.br
Selects output pages. <ranges> is a list of ranges. Each range is
separated by comma. Each range is <begin>-<end> or <page>.
.RS 10
Ex.
.br
2,4,5      : 2, 4, 5 page
.br
1-4        : 1, 2, 3, 4, page
.br
1-4,7,9-12 : 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 9, 10, 11, 12 page
.RE
.TP 5
-font-embedding
.br
Embeds fonts into output PDF file.
.TP 5
-no-compressing-font
.br
Not compresses embedded fonts. By default, embedded fonts are compressed.
.TP 5
no-compressing-contents
.br
Not compresses page content. By default, page content is compressed.
.TP 5
-opw <owner password>
.br
Specifies owner password if a PDF file is encrypted.
.TP 5
-upw <user password>
.br
Specifies user password if a PDF file is encrypted.
.TP 5
-v
.br
Displays version number.
.TP 5
-h
.RS 0
-help
.br
--help
.br
--?
.RE
.RS 5
Displays simple help message.
.RE

.SH AUTHOR
 Koji Otani
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright 2007-2008, BBR Inc.
